The President:
Right now in Washington,
our Senate and House of
Representatives are both
debating proposals for health
insurance reform.
Today, I want to speak with you
about the stakes of this debate,
for our people and for
the future of our nation.
This is an issue that affects
the health and financial
well-being of every single
American and the stability of
our entire economy.
It's about every family unable
to keep up with soaring out of
pocket costs and premiums rising
three times faster than wages.
Every worker afraid of losing
health insurance if they lose
their job, or change jobs.
Everyone who's worried that they
may not be able to get insurance
or change insurance if
someone in their family has a
pre-existing condition.
It's about a woman in Colorado
who told us that when she was
diagnosed with breast cancer,
her insurance company --
the one she'd paid
over $700 a month to --
refused to pay
for her treatment.
She had to use up her retirement
funds to save her own life.
It's about a man from Maryland
who sent us his story --
a middle class college graduate
whose health insurance expired
when he changed jobs.
During that time, he
needed emergency surgery,
and woke up $10,000 in debt -- a debt that has left him unable to
save, buy a home, or
make a career change.
It's about every business
forced to shut their doors,
or shed jobs, or
ship them overseas.
It's about state governments
overwhelmed by Medicaid,
federal budgets
consumed by Medicare,
and deficits piling
higher year after year.
This is the status quo.
This is the system
we have today.
This is what the debate in
Congress is all about: Whether
we'll keep talking and tinkering
and letting this problem fester
as more families and
businesses go under,
and more Americans
lose their coverage.
Or whether we'll seize
this opportunity --
one we might not have
again for generations --
and finally pass health
insurance reform this year,
in 2009.
Now we know there are those who
will oppose reform no matter what.
We know the same special
interests and their agents in
Congress will make the
same old arguments,
and use the same scare tactics
that have stopped reform before
because they profit from this
relentless escalation in health care costs.
And I know that once you've seen
enough ads and heard enough
people yelling on TV, you might
begin to wonder whether there's
a grain of truth to
what they're saying.
So let me take a moment to
answer a few of their arguments.
First, the same folks who
controlled the White House and
Congress for the past eight
years as we ran up record
deficits will argue --
believe it or not --
that health reform will
lead to record deficits.
That's simply not true.
Our proposals cut hundreds
of billions of dollars in
unnecessary spending and
unwarranted giveaways to
insurance companies in
Medicare and Medicaid.
They change incentives so
providers will give patients the
best care, not just the
most expensive care,
which will mean big
savings over time.
And we've urged Congress
to include a proposal for a
standing commission of doctors
and medical experts to oversee
cost-savings measures.
I want to be very clear: I will
not sign on to any health plan
that adds to our deficits
over the next decade.
And by helping improve
quality and efficiency,
the reforms we make will help
bring our deficits under control
in the long-term.
Those who oppose reform will
also tell you that under our
plan, you won't get to
choose your doctor --
that some bureaucrat
will choose for you.
That's also not true.
Michelle and I don't want anyone
telling us who our family doctor
should be -- and no one should decide that for you either.
Under our proposal, if
you like your doctor,
you keep your doctor.
If you like your
current insurance,
you keep that insurance.
Period, end of story.
Finally, opponents of health
reform warn that this is all
some big plot for socialized
medicine or government-run
health care with long
lines and rationed care.
That's not true either.
I don't believe that government
can or should run health care.
But I also don't think insurance
companies should have free reign
to do as they please.
That's why any plan I sign must
include an insurance exchange: a
one-stop shopping marketplace
where you can compare the
benefits, costs, and track records of a variety of plans --
including a public option to
increase competition and keep
insurance companies honest -- and choose what's best for your family.
And that's why we'll put an end
to the worst practices of the
insurance industry: no more
yearly caps or lifetime caps;
no more denying people care
because of pre-existing
conditions; and no more dropping
people from a plan when they get too sick.
No longer will you be
without health insurance,
even if you lose your
job or change your jobs.
The good news is that people
who know the system best are
rallying to the cause of change.
Just this past week, the
American Nurses Association,
representing millions of
nurses across America,
and the American
Medical Association,
representing doctors
across our nation,
announced their support because
they've seen first-hand the need
for health insurance reform.
They know we cannot continue
to cling to health industry
practices that are
bankrupting families,
and undermining American
businesses, large and small.
They know we cannot let special
interests and partisan politics
stand in the way of reform
-- not this time around.
The opponents of health
insurance reform would have us
do nothing.
But think about
what doing nothing,
in the face of ever
increasing costs,
will do to you and your family.
So today, I'm urging
the House and the Senate,
Democrats and Republicans,
to seize this opportunity,
and vote for reform that gives
the American people the best
care at the lowest cost; that
reins in insurance companies,
strengthens businesses and
finally gives families the
choices they need and the
security they deserve.
Thanks.